money you know the thing everyone likes
to think they're good with despite the
evidence provided in every episode of
the Suze Orman show Tina what do you
want to buy hi Suze thanks for taking my
call
I'd like to buy a Mercedes s550 it's
about $1,400 a month that is true you
are denied oh I want to get away the
time to believe p.m. bag so Jenai it's
not even funny I'm gonna deny you again
I would like to buy a study abroad in
Iceland I want to go to the famous elk
school and weigh Kovac and get a
certification as an Elsa Potter here's
the thing I'm denying you yeah of course
is because no one should be spending
$4,000 to get an elf spotting
qualification in fact if you go to last
week tonight calm right now you can
print out a free official elf spotting
certificate which I promise you is every
bit as valid as the most expensive elf
spotting education now go spot some
elves now what one of the big reasons
though Suze Orman denies so many people
is because she thinks we should all be
saving for our retirement and before we
go any further it is important to
acknowledge there are people who just do
not have the money to do that for
systemic reasons that we've addressed on
this show before and will doubtless
address again on giannios sad tastic 'el
circus of misery and math but tonight
let's talk about those who can save for
retirement the target audience for ads
like this we ask people a question how
much money do you think you'll need when
you retire then we gave each person a
ribbon to show how many years that
amount my last it's trying to like pull
it a little further yeah I was trying to
stretch it a little bit more got me to
70 years old I'm gonna have to rethink
this thing that's that's actually a
pretty creepy ad because it's basically
people walking towards the date of their
own death the only way could have been
creepy is if at the end of their ribbons
it said exactly how each person was
going to die
but look it is true it is true that as
as we all live longer you should
absolutely say for retirement if you can
and many do we currently have around 24
trillion dollars sitting in retirement
assets and that figure doesn't even
include the wealth we have in stock
piles beanie babies so let's call it 24
trillion and 32 dollars and a lot of
that money is in the hands of financial
services companies so let's talk a
little about how they work which I know
sounds boring but as a favor to your
future self it is worth watching this
for 20 minutes because you could easily
make small mistakes which could
seriously cost you down the line so
let's start with financial advisors they
are the wholesome friendly faced experts
that you see in apps like this one think
chase wait that is a clear example of
deceptive advertising because nobody
invites their financial advisor to a
wedding if cousin Barbara finds out that
she didn't get an invite but your chase
guy did she's gonna flip her on you
but there is something you should know
about financial advisors even their name
means less than you might think
the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority warns customers to be aware
that Financial Analysts financial
adviser financial consultant financial
planner investment consultant or wealth
manager are generic terms or job titles
and may be used by investment
professionals who may not hold any
specific credential so financial analyst
is just a fancy term that doesn't
actually mean anything sort of like
brand ambassador or the John Oliver
effect meaningless completely
meaningless but even many well
credentialed financial advisors are paid
on Commission so if they recommend
something for you
it may be because they stand to make
money in fact sometimes they're actively
incentivized not to act in your best
interest take annuities now certain
types
those can be very complicated investment
products that have high fees and would
only be appropriate for certain types of
portfolios but some financial advisors
push them hard just look how Suze Orman
reacts when a caller who had just
inherited $80,000 asked for some advice
we have talked to a financial advisor
and he recommended that we put it in an
annuity I knew it I was go before you
said that I was gonna say wait wait let
me tell you I can tell you what the
financial advisor said today did that
advisor also say to you that if you put
that $80,000 in there I'm gonna make
about $4,000 of commissions did he or
she happen to tell you that as well
oh he or she thank you Susie Orman for
pointing out disingenuous financial
swindlers can be women too hashtag lady
crimes
hashtag feminism and brokers pushing
annuities may not just be getting money
last year Elizabeth Warren released a
report on sales perks in the annuity
industry ranging from free cruises to
luxury watches - and this is true this
tacky Super Bowl style ring which is
absolutely ghastly but I guess at least
it makes it easy to spot brokers that
you shouldn't work with hey nice ring
I'll win but I'm gonna guess that you
didn't get that playing running back for
the Green Bay Packers
now generally it is currently legal for
financial advisors to put their own
interests ahead of yours
unless and this is interesting they are
what's called a fiduciary because not
all financial advisors are bound to act
in your best interest but fiduciaries
are which is a bit weird it's like
finding out that only some restaurant
waiters are forbidden from ejaculating
in your soup why is it up to me to ask
you which kind you are I'm sending this
chowder back I'm not risking it you take
it back but financial advisors are just
one part of this if you are lucky your
job offers a 401k retirement plan and if
it does you should probably take
advantage of it but you should also know
they can be a gold mine for financial
service companies and while it's not
unreason
for them to get paid for providing a
service there can't be a lot of
different fees there are legal fees
trustee fees transactional fees
stewardship fees bookkeeping fees
finders fees and the list goes on and on
I honestly wouldn't be surprised if they
also had an elf spotting fee but
remember thanks your new certification
you no longer have to pay it go spot
some elves and I look seemingly tiny
fees can really mount up
thanks to something called compound
interest now whenever retirement
companies like Prudential mention that
it's always as a positive that if you
start with a really small investment by
the time you're ready to retire it will
have substantially grown it's hard to
imagine how something so small you can
help with something so big but if you
start putting that toward your
retirement every week let it grow over
time or 20 to 30 years
that retirement challenge might not seem
so big after all
holy is it just me or did that last
Domino fall really hard that might be
the most upsetting commercial involving
dominoes that doesn't involve the phrase
Kali chicken bacon ranch but but
compound interest works both ways
meaning while your money add ups adds up
your fees can really add up to assume
you're invested in a fund that is
earning a gross annual return of 7% they
charge you a 2% annual fee over 50 years
the difference between your net of 5%
the red line and what you would have
made without fees the Green Line is
staggering you've lost almost two-thirds
of what you would have had two thirds of
what you would have had is gone so think
of fees like termites they're tiny
they're barely noticeable and they can
eat away your king future and one place
where your 401k can be full of termites
is the funds themselves generally
speaking you can choose between low fee
index funds which basically just try to
match the average returns of the stock
market or for a higher fee you can get
an actively managed fund with experts
who will pick and choose stocks for you
trying to beat the market and companies
that sell active funds really believe in
themselves at MF s investment management
we believe active management can protect
capital long term active management can
take calculated risks active management
can seek to outperform
because active investment management
isn't reactive it's active okay that's
not so much a coherent commercial as it
is a drinking game where you do a shot
every time he says the word active but
the problem with active management is
that even many Wall Street experts find
it difficult to consistently beat the
market and there is sometimes
embarrassing evidence of this like when
a group of professionals were pitted in
a stock picking challenge against a cat
named Orlando
Orlando's method he throws a toy mouse
at a grid of companies very scientific
last year Orlando's pics returned nearly
11 percent while the prosy gained just
3.5 percent Oh God
let's all agree that the wolf of Wall
Street would have been way better
starring that cat because you know
instead of drugs there's a pothole
because instead of drugs his downfall
would come when someone busts out a
laser pointer in a meeting but that cat
wasn't a complete anomaly there is
growing evidence that over the long-term
most managed funds do no better and
often do worse than the market it's
basically the plot of Charlie and the
Chocolate Factory if you stick around
doing nothing while everyone around you
up you're going to win big and the
thing is this is not a secret even some
of the people charging those fees know
that this is the reality one of the
ultimate dirty secrets of the fund
industry is that a lot of people who run
other fund companies I'm own index funds
in their in their own accounts and don't
talk about it I'm unless you put a
couple beers in them Wow sometimes I
invest in index funds might be the least
interesting secret anyone has ever died
false won't run it's right up there with
my favorite movie is the constant
gardener
and one time in college I got totally
wasted and read the entire Wikipedia
page for rope so so so don't tell anyone
don't tell anyone so so between
financial advisors high fees and
underperforming active management the
entire retirement plan industry is a
potential minefield and you need to pay
attention and the reason that we know
about this is earlier this year we
actually decided we wanted to set up a
401k for our employees and you might
want to learn from our experience
because here's what happened we reached
out to the production company behind
this show Avalon television and we asked
them to take care of it
a couple of months later they told us we
have your plan it's provided by John
Hancock and we said okay fine and we
went back to work by which I mean we
went back to googling teacup pigs eating
ice cream but but then but then in March
representatives came to our office and
gave our staff presentations on the Nu
plan it's the kind of thing no one in
their right mind it wants to sit through
honestly most of us spent it on our
phones googly teacup pig comma top hat
comma shopping comma beer and boom boom
we hit the jackpot
but unfortunately for John Hancock our
research is starting going through the
documents and started adding up the fees
which came to a combined 1.69 percent
and that was before we paid a $24 per
person per year fee and the fees on our
funds so they asked John Hancock why the
fees were that high and and we were told
that it was normal for a start-up plan
and a new company and Hancock
gave us a lower number that it would
come down to over time when we said okay
okay that sounds fine and our researcher
said wait no that is not fine that
number is still higher than experts have
told us that we want it to be look leave
this will figure it out why don't you
all just go back to googling teacup pigs
in teacups or whatever the it is
that you do all day and we went oh my
god is that a thing that exists and yes
it was
that was the rest of our afternoon right
there
meanwhile our researchers took the
Hancock contract and sent it to
financial experts who flagged an
intermediary fee to a broker 1% the
first year and half a percent after that
and remember that could add up we did
some very rough estimates and and with
35 employees contributing just six
thousand dollars a year after 30 years
half a percent could Apter could add up
to roughly a million dollars that number
was so high you'll never guess what
happened
Janice in accounting actually gave us
serious Caesar chase one of them she
bought cupcakes for the great cooking
yesterday and she adopted a kitten she
named him tuppence so anyway we asked
who the is this broker and he
turned out he was a guy Avalon who
agreed to pay to help them set up and
support our plan and we asked him why
didn't you present us with low cost low
frills plans like the one from Vanguard
and what are we paying you so much for
and he said well first of all our plan
was probably too complicated for
Vanguard and that he did a lot of things
for us like acting as our financial
adviser although as we now know that
term doesn't necessarily mean much in
fact if you go to our website right now
you can print out a free official
financial advisor certificate and there
you go congratulations
and although our broker has other
credentials when we asked if he was a
fiduciary he unsurprisingly said no as
for his fees he said they would come
down and last night he sent us an Excel
spreadsheet showing how they could come
down as our fund assets grew
unfortunately in that spreadsheet he
made an error which meant that our funds
interest didn't compound correctly and
when we pointed that out to him he sent
a second sheet showing that his original
math had been off by more than ten
million dollars which does not inspire
confidence in the man who as he
repeatedly reminded us was helping us
navigate our very complicated plan now
our lawyers at this point say that I
have to tell you that both the broker
and John Hancock claimed their fees
would come down that they're competitive
within the industry and worthless for
the services they provide although you
should know we decided early on to pay
almost all of the fees for our employees
because we were so embarrassed about the
situation that we've got them in and
we're going to be leaving both Hancock
and the broker and I'm guessing off that
they've seen this show they will be
happy to let us go just just so you know
we'll be replacing both of them with
that stock-picking cat because he seems
to really know his
the whole corner telling you this is if
you don't pay close attention all of
this can really get away from you but
here is the good news it doesn't
actually have to be that complicated and
it might be getting simpler back in
April the Department of Labor issued a
final rule requiring that all advisors
handling retirement accounts act as
fiduciaries beginning next year and that
is great because the financial services
industry fought this rule hard they even
launched terrible attack ads you might
have seen one like this on TV it's these
new regulations they're pushing in
Washington that worry me they want to
make it really hard to get advice from a
financial adviser no more help from an
even with our IRA and 401k savings only
if we want to pay a lot more I will
never get the information we need we're
gonna call our senators ok ok to be
honest my only takeaway from that ad is
that that guy is definitely an
it's so obvious it's you need to leave
him non-threatening wife character kick
him to the curb and while the rule has
gone through anyway
five lawsuits have been filed by
financial services groups attacking it
and legislators in the House and Senate
have passed a resolution trying to
overturn that fiduciary rule although
just a few days ago the president did
veto it and by the way that is something
I think we're probably going to be
seeing a lot more off because President
Obama's last year in office seems to be
moving from bipartisan solution to bye
Felisha
and and look I am not saying all of this
is not complicated we spent weeks just
trying to understand our own 401 k plan
but for your average person trying to
save for retirement it doesn't need to
be this confusing the truth is as long
as you remember a few key things you're
probably going to be fine and we wanted
to outline them for you so whenever you
are ready or able to save for retirement
please come back and replay this video
from this exact spot enjoy hi I'm Billy
Eichner and I'm here with a bunch of
King ribbon and I'm using it to show
people how much money they needed to
save for retirement look at you
oh you're so precocious one tiny thing
these are fees that's your
record-keeping fee
that's your wrap fee that's your monthly
participation fee that's your 12b - one
fee that fee goes to some middlemen you
don't even know about and that's your
fee for not knowing about a fee fee and
here's what you've got left to retire on
try ribbon dancing with this you look
like an idiot the problem is that idiots
like Karen here make shitty choices when
it comes to what to do with their money
Karen if you had four thousand dollars
would you invest it in your 401k or
would you go to the elf school in
Reykjavik off school no you plan your
furrow 1k idiot the only elf you should
be studying is Kristin Chenoweth she's a
delight come on out here Kristin
Chenoweth really I love home and who
wouldn't want to go to Reykjavik okay
it's not the Tony Awards go shoo shoo
that was Kristin Chenoweth the point is
the best advice most experts can give
you is to do five things number one
start saving now in fact start saving 10
years ago invent a time machine use it
to go back and start saving money then
kill they be Hitler yes
average people like you and let's face
it you're very very average should
probably just invest in low-cost index
funds and leave it alone
you should check on it about as often as
you Google whether or not Gene Hackman
is still alive about once a year and he
is he's still alive he's writing novels
now third thing if you have an advisor
ask if they're a fiduciary if they say
no run if they say yes but they're
wearing a tacky Super Bowl ring run if
they say yes what they're wearing a
class ring run that has nothing to do
with this I just think it's very strange
when a grown man is wearing a class ring
because of fiduciary number four as you
get older gradually shift your
investments from stocks to bonds here's
a way to remember it every time they
pick a new James Bond gradually switch
more of your stocks into bonds then go
back to wondering if Daniel Craig is
actually attractive what do you think
Doris oh he's so pan
no no no he's not he looks like a blonde
chimpanzee and a tux and you know it oh
I wish this was beep
finally try to keep your fees like your
milk under 1% because just like interest
compounds so due fees and even 1/10 of
1% can really cook you like this
Kristin watch out
oh that reminds me
one last tip don't forget to die Billy
I'm not dead
Kristen you're even shorter now oh stop
coughing disgusting excuse me
retirements no Christian channels for
harmed in the filming of this piece
you